## Research Goals & Brainstorm

- Determine a list of fingerprinting vectors (apis)
  - Ensure to consider dynamic vs static approaches.
  - Many many more static approaches than dynamic ones.
- How to predict new vectors?
  - New software is developed all the time, as a result it is increasingy difficult to predict what API's or hardware will be vulnerable next. We can't be playing catch up all the time.
  - Can we come up with a way to identify "challenges" created by JavaScript execution without knowing the exact API used?
    - Is there a common behavior among all these techniques?
      - Finding many time-based techniques: GPU, Link, etc.
- TCP fingerprinting is common and well known
- Q: Is there a way to compute the uniqueness of data generated by the host?
  - over time the host stores information regarding all canvas renderings, perhaps a shared DB would be more effective, but discovering unusually unique data may suggest that a fingerprinting algorithm is at work, and we can 'poison' accordingly?

## Research Notes

- [Network Protocol System Fingerprinting - A Formal Approach](http://www1.cs.columbia.edu/~danr/courses/6772/Fall06/papers/fingerprint.pdf)
  - Protocol fingerprinting is interesting, as this may correlate to the "internal" protocols executed by a dynamic fingerprinter
  - They "introduce parameterized extended finite state machine to formally model protocol specification and cadidae conforming implementations."
  - "We report our results on operating system fingerprinting and TCP congestion control scheme fingerprinting experiments"
  - also discusses mitigation approaches
  - General idea is OS fingerprinting through specific protocol implementations
    - references nmap as an OS fingerprinter
      - nmap is known to be less effective as many "tests" only use a single packet, as such the host can simply detect this particular packet and ignore it
  - needs protocols to be deterministic, however for dynamic fingerprinters it is dependent on the user's config, as such it is not deterministic (unless already in the DB?)
    - (FSM)in such a secnario with a diversity of deterministic states, the complexity of the fingerprinter would be linear
  - discusses a formalization on generating a fingerprinting set, very interesting as this would be what is used by the malicious attacker.
    - Q: Can we reverse this on the attacker?
  - Mitigation
    - Typically defeating protocol fingerprinting involves modifying the I/O behavior
      - Canvas poisioning modifies the input, which in turn modifies the output
